[](javascript:window.print();)

[Implementation guide](c_vhl_feature-js.html)[Inactive video sessions and
resuming](c_vhl_resume-inact-vid-sess_js.html)

[Parent topic: Inactive video sessions and resuming](c_vhl_resume-inact-vid-
sess_js.html)

# Manually resume a previously closed session

Prerequisite: Before you manually resume a previously closed session, see
[Getting started](r_vhl_getting-started-
js.html#reference_A6D7AF2CDB704C7F9B8230B5DF8116DD).

MediaHeartbeat (VHL) will only automatically resume sessions if the
application was not closed. If the application stores user data and has the
capability to resume a previously closed video, it is possible to manually
trigger a resume event. When starting the video tracking session. Set the
optional property MediaObjectKey.VideoResumed to Yes.

    
    _onVideoLoad = function () {
        // Replace <VIDEO_NAME> with the video name.
        // Replace <VIDEO_ID> with a video unique identifier.
        // Replace <VIDEO_LENGTH> with the video length. 
        var mediaObject = 
          MediaHeartbeat.createMediaObject(<VIDEO_NAME>, 
                                           <VIDEO_ID, 
                                           <VIDEO_LENGTH>, 
                                           MediaHeartbeat.StreamType.VOD);
         
        // Set to true if this user is resuming a previously closed video session
        mediaObject.setValue(MediaObjectKey.VideoResumed, true);
        this._mediaHeartbeat.trackSessionStart(mediaObject, contextData);
    };

[Parent topic: Inactive video sessions and resuming](c_vhl_resume-inact-vid-
sess_js.html)

WebHelp output generated by[ <oXygen/> XML Author ](http://www.oxygenxml.com)

