[](javascript:window.print();)

[Media Collection API Implementation](c_vhl_col-
api_overview.html)[Implementing the API](c_vhl_col-api_implement.html)

[Parent topic: Implementing the API](c_vhl_col-api_implement.html)

# **Queueing Events When Sessions Response is Slow**

The Media Collection API is RESTful: i.e, you make an HTTP request and wait
for the response. This is only important when you make a [Sessions Request
](c_vhl_col-api_ref_sessions_req.html) to obtain a Session ID at the beginning
of video playback. Your player may fire events before the sessions response
returns (with the Session ID parameter) from the backend. In this case your
app must queue any tracking events that arrive between the [Sessions Request
](c_vhl_col-api_ref_sessions_req.html) and its response. When the sessions
response arrives, you should first process any queued events, then you can
start processing live events with the events API. The [Events Request
](c_vhl_col-api_ref_events_req.html)does not return data back to the client
beyond an HTTP response code. Check the Reference Player in your distribution
for one way to process events prior to receiving a Session ID. For example:

    
    var eventData = {};            // JSON payload
    eventData.playerTime = getPlayerTime(); // Required
    eventData.eventType = "play";           // Required
    eventData.params = {};                  // Optional for events
    
    VideoPlayer.prototype._collectEvent = 
      function(eventData) {
    
        // If we don't have a Session ID yet, 
        // queue the event and return...
        if (!sessionStarted) {
            console.log("[Player] Queueing event ");
            _pendingEvents.push(eventData);
            return;
        }
    
        // If we DO have a Session ID, process the
        // tracking event...    
        apiClient.request({
            "baseUrl": "{endpoint}",
            "path": "api/v1/{sid}/events", // events request
            "method": "POST",
            "data": eventData
        }).then((response) => {  
            […]
        }
    }
    
    VideoPlayer.prototype.collectEvent = 
      function (eventType, eventParams) {
            
        if (typeof eventParams === 'undefined') {  
            eventParams = {};
        }
    
        this._collectEvent({                  
            eventType: eventType,            // Required
            playerTime: getPlayerTime(),     // Required
            params: eventParams              // Optional 
        });                                   
    };
    
    VideoPlayer.prototype.getPlayerTime = function() {
        return {
            playhead: this.getPlayhead(),    // playhead value in seconds
            ts: this.getCurrentTimestamp()   // timestamp value in milliseconds
        };
    };

**Process any queued events -** The reference player processes queued events as follows:
    
        […]
        this._processPendingEvents();    // Once you have a Session ID,
        […]                              // process any queued events
    
    VideoPlayer.prototype._processPendingEvents = 
      function() {
        this._pendingEvents.forEach((eventData) => {
            this._collectEvent(eventData);
        });
    
        this._pendingEvents = [];
    }

Continue to process tracking events as they occur.

[Parent topic: Implementing the API](c_vhl_col-api_implement.html)

WebHelp output generated by[ <oXygen/> XML Author ](http://www.oxygenxml.com)

