[](javascript:window.print();)

[Media Collection API Implementation](c_vhl_col-
api_overview.html)[Implementing the API](c_vhl_col-api_implement.html)

[Parent topic: Implementing the API](c_vhl_col-api_implement.html)

# **Quick Start**

Tip: Gather the request data necessary for completing a successful [Sessions
Request](c_vhl_col-api_ref_sessions_req.html) to the Media Collection server.
You can quickly verify your request data by sending requests manually (with
curl, or Postman, etc.). This will give you immediate feedback on whether you
have any issues with incorrect data types or incorrect information in your
request. Use the [JSON Validation Schemas](c_vhl_col-
api_ref_json_validation.html) to verify that you are supplying proper request
data.

  1. Gather the standard, required Adobe Analytics and Visitor data that you must supply to run any of the Experience Cloud applications:
    * Visitor Experience Cloud Org ID
    * Analytics Visitor ID
    * Analytics Report Suite ID
    * Analytics Tracking Server URL
  2. Create a JSON object for your sessions request body, containing the minimum data required for a successful call. For example:
    
    {
        "playerTime": {
            "playhead": 0,
            "ts": 1234560890123
        },
        "eventType": "sessionStart",
        "params": {
            "media.playerName": "sample-html5-api-player",
            "analytics.trackingServer": "[_YOUR_TS_]",
            "analytics.reportSuite": "[_YOUR_RSID_]",
            "analytics.visitorId": "[_YOUR_VISITOR_ID_]",
            "media.contentType": "VOD",
            "media.length": 60.39333333333333,
            "media.id": "VA API Sample Player",
            "visitor.marketingCloudOrgId": "[YOUR_ORG_ID]",
            "media.name": "ClickMe",
            "media.channel": "sample-channel",
            "media.sdkVersion": "va-api-0.0.0",
            "analytics.enableSSL": false
        }
    }

Note: You must use the correct data types in the JSON request body. E.g.,
analytics.enableSSL requires a boolean, media.length is numeric, etc. You can
check parameter types and mandatory versus optional requirements by checking
the JSON validation schemas.

  3. Send sessions requests to the VA API endpoint. If your request payload is invalid, identify the problem and retry until you get a 201 Created response. In this curl example, the JSON request body is in a file named sample_data_session:
    
    $ curl -i -d \
      @sample_data_session http://{uri}/api/v1/sessions \
      > curl.sessions.out
    
    $ cat curl.sessions.out
    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Server: nginx/1.13.5
    Date: Mon, 18 Dec 2017 22:34:12 GMT
    Content-Type: application/octet-stream
    Content-Length: 0
    Connection: keep-alive
    Location: /api/v1/sessions/**a39c037641f[…]** [ **<== Session ID** ]
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
    Access-Control-Allow-Methods: OPTIONS,POST,PUT
    Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type
    Access-Control-Expose-Headers: Location

If the [Sessions Request](c_vhl_col-api_ref_sessions_req.html) succeeds, you
receive a 201 Created response similar to the one above. The response includes
a Session ID in the Location header. The Session ID is the crucial piece of
information in the response, as it is required for all subsequent tracking
calls. After a successful return of a [Sessions Request](c_vhl_col-
api_ref_sessions_req.html), you can confidently proceed with implementing
video tracking using the VA API in your video player.

[Parent topic: Implementing the API](c_vhl_col-api_implement.html)

WebHelp output generated by[ <oXygen/> XML Author ](http://www.oxygenxml.com)

